WEB DEVELOPMENT CODECADEMY:

-----LECCION 1----- 
INTRO TO THE BOX MODEL: The box model comprises the set of properties that define parts of an element that 
take up space on a web page. The model includes the content area’s size (width and height) and the element’s 
padding, border, and margin. The properties include:
1. width and height: The width and height of the content area.
2. padding: The amount of space between the content area and the border.
3. border: The thickness and style of the border surrounding the content area and padding.
4. margin: The amount of space between the border and the outside edge of the element.

HEIGHT AND WIDTH: By default, the dimensions of an HTML box are set to hold the raw contents of the box.
The CSS height and width properties can be used to modify these default dimensions.

The 'px' in the code stands for pixels. Pixels allow you to set the exact size of an element’s box 
(width and height). When the width and height of an element are set in pixels, it will be the same size on 
all devices — an element that fills a laptop screen will overflow a mobile screen.

BORDERS: A border is a line that surrounds an element, like a frame around a painting. Borders can be set with
a specific width, style, and color:
1. width- The thickness of the border. A border’s thickness can be set in pixels or with one of the following 
keywords: thin, medium, or thick.
2. style- The design of the border. Web browsers can render any of 10 different styles. Some of these styles 
include: none, dotted, and solid.
3. color- The color of the border. Web browsers can render colors using a few different formats, including 140 
built-in color keywords.

BORDER RADIUS: Thanks to CSS, a border doesn’t have to be square.
You can modify the corners of an element’s border box with the border-radius property.
EJ:
div.container {
  border: 3px solid blue;
  border-radius: 5px;
}

PADDING: The space between the contents of a box and the borders of a box is known as padding. Padding is like 
the space between a picture and the frame surrounding it. 
If you want to be more specific about the amount of padding on each side of a box’s content, you can use the 
following properties: padding-top; padding-right; padding-bottom; padding-left

PADDING SHORTHAND: Another implementation that lets you specify exactly how much padding there should be on 
each side of the content in a single declaration.

You can specify these properties in a few different ways:

- 4 Values: 
p.content-header {
  padding: 6px 11px 4px 9px;
}
In order, it specifies the padding-top value (6px), the padding-right value (11px), 
the padding-bottom value (4px), and the padding-left value (9px) of the content.

- 3 Values: 
p.content-header {
  padding: 5px 10px 20px;
}
If the left and right sides of the content are equal. The first value sets the padding-top value (5px), 
the second value sets the padding-left and padding-right values (10px), and the third one sets the 
padding-bottom value (20px).

- 2 Values: 
p.content-header {
  padding: 5px 10px;
}
If the top and bottom sides can be equal, and the left and right sides can be equal, we specify 2 values. 
The first one sets the padding-top and padding-bottom values (5px), and the second one sets the padding-left 
and padding-right values (10px).

MARGIN: Refers to the space directly outside of the box. The margin property is used to specify the size 
of this space.

MARGIN SHORTHAND: The shorthand syntax for margins is the same as padding.

AUTO: The margin property also lets you center content. However, you must follow a few syntax requirements.
div.headline {
  width: 400px;
  margin: 0 auto;
}
The 0 sets the top and bottom margins to 0 pixels. The auto value instructs the browser to adjust the left 
and right margins until the element is centered within its containing element.
In order to center an element, a width must be set for that element.

MARGIN COLLAPSE: Padding is space added inside an element’s border, while margin is space added outside an 
element’s border. One additional difference is that top and bottom margins, also called vertical margins, 
collapse, while top and bottom padding does not. Horizontal margins (left and right), like padding, are 
always displayed and added together. Unlike horizontal margins, vertical margins do not add. Instead, the 
larger of the two vertical margins sets the distance between adjacent elements.


MINIMUM NAD MAXIMUM HEIGHT AND WIDTH: Content, like text, can become difficult to read when a browser window 
is narrowed or expanded. These two properties ensure that content is legible by limiting the minimum and 
maximum widths of an element.

OVERFLOW: The overflow property controls what happens to content that spills, or overflows, outside its box. 
The overflow property is set on a parent element to instruct a web browser on how to render child elements.
The most commonly used values are:
1. hidden — when set to this value, any content that overflows will be hidden from view.
2. scroll — when set to this value, a scrollbar will be added to the element’s box so that the rest of the 
content can be viewed by scrolling.
3. visible — when set to this value, the overflow content will be displayed outside of the containing element. 
Note, this is the default value.

RESETTING DEFAULTS:
* {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
}
The code in the example above resets the default margin and padding values of all HTML elements. 
It is often the first CSS rule in an external stylesheet.

VISIBILITY: Elements can be hidden from view with the visibility property.
The visibility property can be set to one of the following values:
hidden — hides an element.
visible — displays an element.
collapse — collapses an element.


-----LECCION 2----- 
INTRO A DEV TOOLS: How to manipulate the box model proportions.
1. Article:
https://www.codecademy.com/paths/web-development/tracks/getting-more-advanced-with-design/modules/learn-css-box-model/articles/f1-devtools-box-model
2. Video: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VuQ4pF_hfag


-----LECCION 3----- 
DISPLAY AND POSITIONING:
FLOW OF HTML: A browser will render the elements of an HTML document that has no CSS from left to right, top 
to bottom, in the same order as they exist in the document. This is called the flow of elements in HTML.
In this lesson, we will learn five properties for adjusting the position of HTML elements in the browser.

POSITION: Block-level elements create a block the full width of their parent elements, and they prevent other 
elements from appearing in the same horizontal space. Osea, que a priori no puedo poner varios elementos de manera
horizontal entre ellos. Cuando creo una division, automaticamente agarra el ancho de su padre, o de toda la pag.

The default position of an element can be changed by setting its position property. 
The position property can take one of five values:
- static - the default value (it does not need to be specified)
- relative
- absolute
- fixed
- sticky 

POSITION: RELATIVE
This value allows you to position an element relative to its default static position on the web page.
We can specify where the element should be positioned on the page. This is done by accompanying the position 
declaration with one or more of the following offset properties that will move the element away from its default 
static position:
- top - moves the element down from the top.
- bottom - moves the element up from the bottom.
- left - moves the element away from the left side (to the right).
- right - moves the element away from the right side (to the left).

.green-box {
  background-color: green;
  position: relative;
  top: 50px;
  left: 120px;
}

POSITION: ABSOLUTE
When an element’s position is set to absolute, all other elements on the page will ignore the element and act like 
it is not present on the page. The element will be positioned relative to its closest positioned parent element, 
while offset properties can be used to determine the final position from there.
Seria como tener una imagen en word que no dependa del texto, que el texto pise a la imagen.

POSITION: FIXED
When an element’s position is set to absolute, as in the last exercise, the element will scroll with the rest of 
the document when a user scrolls. We can fix an element to a specific position on the page (regardless of user 
scrolling) by setting its position to fixed, and accompanying it with the familiar offset properties top, bottom, 
left, and right. Esto me sirve para una navbar por ejemplo. Ya que siempre que scrolleo, esta me va a aparecer en 
la pagina.

.title {
  position: fixed;
  top: 0px;
  left: 0px;
}

The .title element will remain fixed to its position no matter where the user scrolls on the page

POSITION: STICKY
Since static and relative positioned elements stay in the normal flow of the document, when a user scrolls the page 
(or parent element) these elements will scroll too. And since fixed and absolute positioned elements are removed 
from the document flow, when a user scrolls, these elements will stay at their specified offset position.
The sticky value is another position value that keeps an element in the document flow as the user scrolls, 
but *sticks* to a specified position as the page is scrolled further. 

.box-bottom {
  background-color: darkgreen;
  position: sticky;
  top: 240px;
}

In the example above, the .box-bottom <div> will remain in its relative position, and scroll as usual. When it 
reaches 240 pixels from the top, it will stick to that position until it reaches the bottom of its parent 
container where it will “unstick” and rejoin the flow of the document.

Z-INDEX: When boxes on a web page have a combination of different positions, the boxes (and therefore, their 
content) can overlap with each other, making the content difficult to read or consume.
The z-index property controls how far back or how far forward an element should appear on the web page when 
elements overlap. This can be thought of as the depth of elements, with deeper elements appearing behind 
shallower elements.
Es como un efecto de parallax. Le da a cada elemento que lo tenga, una prioridad sobre si debe aparecer adelante
o atras.

INLINE DISPLAY:
In the example below, the <em> element is inline, because it displays its content on the same line as the 
content surrounding it, including the anchor tag.
EJ: To learn more about <em>inline</em> elements, read <a href="#">MDN documentation</a>.   


DISPLAY: BLOCK
Some elements are not displayed in the same line as the content around them. These are called block-level 
elements. These elements fill the entire width of the page by default, but their width property can also be set.
Elements that are block-level by default include all levels of heading elements (<h1> through <h6>), <p>, <div> 
and <footer>.

DISPLAY: INLINE-BLOCK
Inline-block display combines features of both inline and block elements. Inline-block elements can appear next 
to each other and we can specify their dimensions using the width and height properties. Images are the best 
example of default inline-block elements.
Por ejemplo, me sirve para poner una al lado de la otra a cada seccion de una navbar.

FLOAT: 
So far, we’ve learned how to specify the exact position of an element using offset properties. If we’re simply 
interested in moving an element as far left or as far right as possible in the container, we can use the float 
property.
The float property is often set using one of the values below:
- left - moves, or floats, elements as far left as possible.
- right - moves elements as far right as possible.

Floated elements must have a width specified, as in the example above. Otherwise, the element will assume the 
full width of its containing element, and changing the float value will not yield any visible results.

What’s the difference between display: inline; and display: inline-block;?
display: inline; elements:
	-allow display: inline; and display: inline-block; elements to sit to their left and right
	-do not respect top/bottom margin/padding declarations, and do not respect width and height declarations
	-only take up the width of the content

display: inline-block; elements:
	-allow display: inline; and display: inline-block; elements to sit to their left and right
	-respect top/bottom margin/padding declarations, and they respect height and width declarations
	-takes up all available horizontal space unless otherwise specified

CLEAR:
The float property can also be used to float multiple elements at once. However, when multiple floated elements 
have different heights, it can affect their layout on the page. Specifically, elements can “bump” into each other 
and not allow other elements to properly move to the left or right.

The clear property specifies how elements should behave when they bump into each other on the page. 
It can take on one of the following values:
- left: the left side of the element will not touch any other element within the same containing element.
- right: the right side of the element will not touch any other element within the same containing element.
- both: neither side of the element will touch any other element within the same containing element.
- none: the element can touch either side.


-----LECCION 4-----
COLORS: Colors in CSS can be described in three different ways:
Named colors — English words that describe colors, also called keyword colors
RGB — numeric values that describe a mix of red, green, and blue
HSL — numeric values that describe a mix of hue, saturation, and lightness 

FOREGROUND VS BACKGROUND:
- color - this property styles an element’s foreground color.
- background-color - this property styles an element’s background color.

HEXADECIMAL: One syntax that we can use to specify colors is called hexadecimal. Colors specified using this 
system are called hex colors. A hex color begins with a hash character (#) which is followed by three or six 
characters. The characters represent values for red, blue and green.

RGB COLORS: There is another syntax for representing RGB values, commonly referred to as “RGB value” or just 
“RGB”, that uses decimal numbers rather than hexadecimal numbers, and it looks like this:

h1 {
  color: rgb(23, 45, 23);
}

In general, hex and RGB color representations are equivalent. Which you choose is a matter of personal taste. 
That said, it’s good to choose one and be consistent throughout your CSS, because it’s easier to compare 
hex to hex and RGB to RGB.

HUE, SATURATION AND LIGHTNESS: The syntax for HSL is similar to the decimal form of RGB, though it differs in 
important ways. The first number represents the degree of the hue, and can be between 0 and 360. The second 
and third numbers are percentages representing saturation and lightness respectively. 
Here is an example:

color: hsl(120, 60%, 70%);

HSL is convenient for adjusting colors. In RGB, making the color a little darker may affect all three color 
components. In HSL, that’s as easy as changing the lightness value. HSL is also useful for making a set of 
colors that work well together by selecting various colors that have the same lightness and saturation but 
different hues.

OPACITY AND ALPHA: In this exercise, we’ll change the opacity, or the amount of transparency, of some colors 
so that some or all of the bottom elements are visible through a covering element.
To use opacity in the HSL color scheme, *use hsla instead of hsl*, and four values instead of three. 
For example:

color: hsla(34, 100%, 50%, 0.1);

The first three values work the same as hsl. The fourth value (which we have not seen before) is the *alpha*. 
This last value is sometimes called opacity.
You can think of the alpha value as, “the amount of the background to mix with the foreground”. When a color’s 
alpha is below one, any color behind it will be blended in. The blending happens for each pixel; 
no blurring occurs.

The RGB color scheme has a similar syntax for opacity, rgba. Again, the first three values work the same as 
rgb and the last value is the alpha. 
Here’s an example:

color: rgba(234, 45, 98, 0.33);

There is a named color keyword for zero opacity, transparent. For example, 'color: transparent;'.


-----LECCION 5----- 
TYPOGRAPHY

FONT FAMILY: The font of an element can be changed using the font-family property.

When specifying a typeface with multiple words, like Times New Roman, it is recommended to use quotation marks 
(' ') to group the words together, like so:
h1 {
  font-family: 'Times New Roman';
}

There is a selection of fonts that will appear the same across all browsers and operating systems. These fonts 
are referred to as web safe fonts. You can check out a complete list of web safe fonts here: 
https://www.cssfontstack.com/

FALLBACK FONTS AND FONT STACKS: 
h1 {
  font-family: Caslon, Georgia, 'Times New Roman';
}
In the example above, Georgia and Times New Roman are fallback fonts to Caslon. When you specify a group of 
fonts, you have what is known as a font stack. A font stack usually contains a list of similar-looking fonts. 
Here, the browser will first try to use the Caslon font. If that’s not available, it will try to use a similar 
font, Georgia. And if Georgia is not available, it will try to use Times New Roman.

SERIF AND SANS-SERIF: The fonts Caslon, Georgia, and Times New Roman are Serif fonts. Serif fonts have extra 
details on the ends of each letter, as opposed to Sans-Serif fonts, which do not have the extra details.

FONT WEIGHT: It controls how bold or thin text appears. It can be specified with keywords or numerical values.
The font-weight property can take any one of these keyword values:
- bold: Bold font weight.
- normal: Normal font weight. This is the default value.
- lighter: One font weight lighter than the element’s parent value.
- bolder: One font weight bolder than the element’s parent value.

It can also take a numerical value. Numerical values can range from 1 (lightest) to 1000 (boldest), but it 
is common practice to use increments of 100. Keep in mind that not all fonts can be assigned a numeric 
font weight.

FONT STYLE: You can also *italicize* text with the font-style property. The font-style property also has a 
normal value which is the default.

TEXT TRANSFORMATION: Text can also be styled to appear in either all uppercase or lowercase with the 
text-transform property.

TEXT LAYOUT: Now we’ll learn about some ways text can be displayed or laid out within the element’s container.
- letter-spacing: It is used to set the horizontal spacing between the individual characters in an element.
	          It takes length values in units, such as 2px or 0.5em.
- word-spacing: You can set the space between words with it. It takes length values in units, such as 3px or 0.2em.
- line-height: We can use the it to set how tall we want each line containing our text to be. Line height 
	       values can be a unitless number, such as 1.2, or a length value, such as 12px, 5% or 2em.
	       Generally, the unitless value is preferred since it is responsive based on the current font size. 
	       If the line-height is specified by a unitless number, changing the font size will automatically 
	       re-adjust the line height.
- text-align: It aligns text to its parent element. For example, it can take the value *right*, or *justify*.

WEB FONTS USING <link>: Online font services, like *Google Fonts*, make it easy to find and link to fonts from 
your site. You can browse and select fonts that match the style of your website. 
When you’re done selecting a font ('Roboto', for example) and its styles, you can review your selected 
font family, and a <link> element will be automatically generated for you to use on your site!
Google Fonts link: https://fonts.google.com/

<head>
  <!-- Add the link element for Google Fonts along with other metadata -->
  <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto:wght@100&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
<head>

The generated <link> element needs to be added to the <head> element in your HTML document for it to be ready 
to be used in your CSS.

p {
  font-family: 'Roboto', sans-serif;
}

You can then create font-family declarations in your CSS.

WEB FONTS USING @font-face: Fonts can also be added using a @font-face ruleset in your CSS stylesheet instead 
of using a <link> element in your HTML document.

Within the “Selected Families” section, you can use the “Download” button to download the font files to your 
computer. The files will be downloaded as a single format, in this case, TTF. You can use a tool such as 
Google Web Fonts Helper to generate additional file types for WOFF and WOFF2.

When you have the files you need, move them to a folder inside your website’s working directory, and you’re 
ready to use them in a @font-face ruleset!

@font-face {
  font-family: 'MyParagraphFont';
  src: url('fonts/Roboto.woff2') format('woff2'),
       url('fonts/Roboto.woff') format('woff'),
       url('fonts/Roboto.ttf') format('truetype');
}

- The @font-face at-rule is used as the selector. It’s recommended to define the @font-face ruleset at the 
top of your CSS stylesheet.
- The font-family property is used to set a custom name for the downloaded font. The name can be anything you choose.
- The src property contains three values, each specifying the relative path to the font file and its format. 
In this example, the font files are stored inside a folder named fonts within the working directory.

Once the @font-face at-rule is defined, you can use the font in your stylesheet!


-----LECCION 6----- 
SIZING ELEMENTS
How can we ensure that a website is readable and visually appealing across all devices, regardless of screen size?
The answer: responsive design! Responsive design refers to the ability of a website to resize and reorganize its 
content based on:
- The size of other content on the website.
- The size of the screen the website is being viewed on.

EM: You can create relatively-sized content with this unit of measurement.
Today, the em represents the font-size of the current element or the default base font-size set by the browser if 
none is given. For example, if the base font of a browser is 16 pixels (which is normally the default size of 
text in a browser), then 1 em is equal to 16 pixels. 2 ems would equal 32 pixels, and so on.
For example,

.heading {
  font-size: 2em;
}

In the example above, no base font has been specified, therefore the font size of the heading element will be set 
relative to the default font size of the browser. Assuming the default font size is 16 pixels, then the font size 
of the heading element will be 32 pixels.

REM: Another relative unit of measurement. It acts similar to em, but instead of checking parent elements to size 
font, it checks the root element. The root element is the <html> tag.
Most browsers set the font size of <html> to 16 pixels, so by default rem measurements will be compared to that 
value. To set a different font size for the root element, you can add a CSS rule.

html {
  font-size: 20px;
}
 
h1 {
  font-size: 2rem;
}
In the example above, the font size of the root element, <html>, is set to 20 pixels. All subsequent rem 
measurements will now be compared to that value and the size of h1 elements in the example will be 40 pixels.

If you are interested in sizing elements consistently across an entire website, the rem measurement is the best 
unit for the job. If you’re interested in sizing elements in comparison to other elements nearby, then the em 
unit would be better suited for the job.

PERCENTAGES: HEIGHT & WIDTH: To size non-text HTML elements relative to their parent elements on the page you 
can use percentages. Percentages are often used to size box-model values, like width and height, padding, border, 
and margins. They can also be used to set positioning properties (top, bottom, left, right).
For example,

.main {
  height: 300px;
  width: 500px;
}
 
.main .subsection {
  height: 50%;
  width: 50%;
}

In the example above, .main and .subsection each represent divs. The .subsection div is nested within the 
.main div. When percentages are used, elements are sized relative to the dimensions of their parent element (also 
known as a container). Therefore, the dimensions of the .subsection div will be 150 pixels tall and 250 pixels wide.

Note: Because the box model includes padding, borders, and margins, setting an element’s width to 100% may 
cause content to overflow its parent container. While tempting, 100% should only be used when content will 
not have padding, border, or margin.

PERCENTAGES: PADDING & MARGIN: When percentages are used to set padding and margin, they are calculated based only 
on the width of the parent element. For example, when a property like margin-left is set using a percentage 
(say 50%), the element will be moved halfway to the right in the parent container. Vertical padding and margin are 
also calculated based on the width of the parent. 

Note: When using relative sizing, ems and rems should be used to size text and dimensions on the page related to 
text size (i.e. padding around text). This creates a consistent layout based on text size. 
Otherwise, percentages should be used.

WIDTH: MINIMUM & MAXIMUM: elements on a website can lose their integrity when they become too small or large. 
You can limit how wide an element becomes with the following properties:
- min-width — ensures a minimum width for an element.
- max-width — ensures a maximum width for an element.

p {
  min-width: 300px;
  max-width: 600px;
}
In the example above, when the browser is resized, the width of paragraph elements will not fall below 300 pixels, 
nor will their width exceed 600 pixels. When a browser window is narrowed or widened, text can become either very 
compressed or very spread out, making it difficult to read. These two properties ensure that content is legible 
by limiting the minimum and maximum widths.

Note: The unit of pixels is used to ensure hard limits on the dimensions of the element(s).

HEIGHT: MINIMUM & MAXIMUM: You can also limit the minimum and maximum height of an element.
- min-height — ensures a minimum height for an element’s box.
- max-height — ensures a maximum height for an element’s box.

What will happen to the contents of an element if the max-height property is set too low for that element? 
It’s possible that content will overflow outside of the element, resulting in content that is not legible.

SCALING IMAGES AND VIDEOS: When a website contains such media, it’s important to make sure that it is scaled 
proportionally so that users can correctly view it.

.container {
  width: 50%;
  height: 200px;
  overflow: hidden;
}
 
.container img {
  max-width: 100%;
  height: auto;
  display: block;
}

In the example above, .container represents a container div. Setting overflow to hidden ensures that any content 
with dimensions larger than the container will be hidden from view.

The second CSS rule ensures that images scale with the width of the container. The height property is set to auto, 
meaning an image’s height will automatically scale proportionally with the width. Finally, the last line will 
display images as block level elements (rather than inline-block, their default state). This will prevent images 
from attempting to align with other content on the page (like text), which can add unintended margin to the images.
It’s worth memorizing the entire example above. It represents a very common design pattern used to scale images 
and videos proportionally.
For the image, you can set max-height to 100% and width to auto (essentially swapping the values). This will scale 
the height of the image with the height of the container instead. If the image is larger than the container, the 
horizontal portion of the image will overflow and not display.

SCALING BACKGROUND IMAGES: 

body {
  background-image: url('#');
  background-repeat: no-repeat;
  background-position: center;
  background-size: cover;
}

In the example above, the first CSS declaration sets the background image (# is a placeholder for an image URL 
in this example). The second declaration instructs the CSS compiler to not repeat the image (by default, images 
will repeat). The third declaration centers the image within the element.

The final declaration, however, is the focus of the example above. It’s what scales the background image. The 
image will cover the entire background of the element, all while keeping the image in proportion. If the 
dimensions of the image exceed the dimensions of the container then only a portion of the image will display.


-----LECCION 7----- 
MEDIA QUERIES
When someone visits a website, it’s possible they are viewing it on a phone, tablet, computer, or even a TV 
monitor. Because screen sizes can vary greatly across different devices, it’s important for websites to resize and 
reorganize their content to best fit screens of all sizes.

When a website doesn’t respond to different screen sizes, the website may look odd or become indecipherable on 
certain devices. This usually occurs on smaller screens, like phones. When a website responds to the size of the 
screen it’s viewed on, it’s called a responsive website.

Example of a website that does not respond to different screen sizes:
https://content.codecademy.com/courses/freelance-1/unit-5/globe-book-store/index.html

Example of a responsive website:
https://content.codecademy.com/courses/freelance-1/unit-5/globe-book-store/index-responsive.html

CSS uses media queries to adapt a website’s content to different screen sizes. With media queries, CSS can detect 
the size of the current screen and apply different CSS styles depending on the width of the screen.

@media only screen and (max-width: 480px) {
  body {
    font-size: 12px;
  }
}

The example above demonstrates how a media query is applied. The media query defines a rule for screens smaller 
than 480 pixels (approximately the width of many smartphones in landscape orientation, osea horizontal).

Let’s break this example down into its parts:
1. @media — This keyword begins a media query rule and instructs the CSS compiler on how to parse the rest of the 
	    rule.
2. only screen — Indicates what types of devices should use this rule.
3. and (max-width : 480px) — This part of the rule is called a media feature, and instructs the CSS compiler to 
			     apply the CSS styles to devices with a width of 480 pixels or smaller. 
4. CSS rules are nested inside of the media query’s curly braces. The rules will be applied when the media query 
is met. In the example above, the text in the body element is set to a font-size of 12px when the user’s screen 
is less than 480px.

RANGE: Specific screen sizes can be targeted by setting multiple width and height media features. By using multiple 
widths and heights, a range can be set for a media query.

@media only screen and (min-width: 320px) and (max-width: 480px) {
    /* ruleset for 320px - 480px */
}

The example above can be written using two separate rules as well:

@media only screen and (min-width: 320px) { 
    /* ruleset for >= 320px */
}
 
 
@media only screen and (min-width: 480px) { 
    /* ruleset for >= 480px */
}

DOTS PER INCH (DPI): Another media feature we can target is screen resolution. Many times we will want to supply 
higher quality media (images, video, etc.) only to users with screens that can support high resolution media.
To target by resolution, we can use the min-resolution and max-resolution media features.

@media only screen and (min-resolution: 300dpi) {
    /* CSS for high resolution screens */ Por ejemplo, puedo cambiar la imagen de un logo, para que sea mas hd.
}
The media query in the example above targets high resolution screens by making sure the screen resolution is at 
least 300 dots per inch. If the screen resolution query is met, then we can use CSS to display high resolution 
images and other media.

and OPERATOR: In previous exercises, we chained multiple media features of the same type in one media query by 
using the and operator. It allowed us to create a range by using min-width and max-width in the same media query.
The 'and' operator can be used to require multiple media features. Therefore, we can use the and operator to 
require both a max-width of 480px and to have a min-resolution of 300dpi.

@media only screen and (max-width: 480px) and (min-resolution: 300dpi) {
    /* CSS ruleset */
}

By placing the and operator between the two media features, the browser will require both media features to be 
true before it renders the CSS within the media query. The and operator can be used to chain as many media 
features as necessary.

COMMA SEPARATED LIST: If only one of multiple media features in a media query must be met, media features can be 
separated in a comma separated list.

For example, if we needed to apply a style when only one of the below is true:
- The screen is more than 480 pixels wide
- The screen is in landscape mode

We could write:
@media only screen and (min-width: 480px), (orientation: landscape) {
    /* CSS ruleset */
}

Note that the second media feature is orientation. The orientation media feature detects if the page has more 
width than height. If a page is wider, it’s 'landscape', and if a page is taller, it’s 'portrait'.

BREAKPOINTS: The points at which media queries are set are called breakpoints. Breakpoints are the screen sizes 
at which your web page does not appear properly. For example, if we want to target tablets that are in landscape 
orientation, we can create the following breakpoint:

@media only screen and (min-width: 768px) and (max-width: 1024px) and (orientation: landscape) {
    /* CSS ruleset */
}

However, setting breakpoints for every device imaginable would be incredibly difficult because there are many 
devices of differing shapes and sizes. New devices are released with new screen sizes every year.

Rather than set breakpoints based on specific devices, the best practice is to resize your browser to view where 
the website naturally breaks based on its content. The dimensions at which the layout breaks or looks odd become 
your media query breakpoints. Within those breakpoints, we can adjust the CSS to make the page resize and 
reorganize.

Here is a reference list of breakpoints by device widths: 
https://content.codecademy.com/courses/freelance-1/unit-5/screen-sizes.png


-----LECCION 7----- 
FLEXBOX
CSS provides many tools and properties that you can use to position elements on a webpage. Flexbox is a tool that 
greatly simplifies how to position elements.

There are two important components to a flexbox layout: flex containers and flex items. A flex container is an 
element on a page that contains flex items. All direct child elements of a flex container are flex items.

To designate an element as a flex container, set the element’s display property to flex or inline-flex. Once an 
item is a flex container, there are several properties we can use to specify how its children behave.

DISPLAY: FLEX: Flex containers are helpful tools for creating websites that respond to changes in screen sizes. 
Child elements of flex containers will change size and location in response to the size and position of their 
parent container.
For an element to become a flex container, its display property must be set to flex.

div.container {
  display: flex;
}
In the example above, all divs with the class container are flex containers. If they have children, the 
children are flex items.

INLINE-FLEX: If we didn’t want div elements to be block-level elements, we would use display: inline. Flexbox, 
however, provides the inline-flex value for the display property, which allows us to create flex containers 
that are also inline elements.

JUSTIFY-CONTENT: We can specify how flex items spread out from left to right, along the main axis. 
To position the items from left to right, we use a property called justify-content. 
Basicamente esto me ordena los elementos de manera horizontal con un criterio.

.container {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: flex-end;
}
This will cause all of the flex items to shift to the right side of the flex container.
Below are five commonly used values for the justify-content property:
- flex-start — 	  all items will be positioned in order, starting from the left of the parent container, with no 
	       	  extra space between or before them.
- flex-end — 	  all items will be positioned in order, with the last item starting on the right side of the 
		  parent container, with no extra space between or after them.
- center — 	  all items will be positioned in order, in the center of the parent container with no extra space 
	   	  before, between, or after them.
- space-around  — items will be positioned with equal space before and after each item, resulting in double the 
		  space between elements.
- space-between — items will be positioned with equal space between them, but no extra space before the first or 
		  after the last elements.

“No extra space” means that margins and borders will be respected, but no more space (than is specified in the 
style rule for the particular element) will be added between elements. 

ALIGN-ITEMS: It is also possible to align flex items vertically within the container. The align-items property 
makes it possible to space flex items vertically.
Basicamente esto me ordena los elementos de manera vertical con un criterio.

.container {
  align-items: baseline;
}
In the example above, the align-items property is set to baseline. This means that the baseline of the content of each item will be aligned.
Below are five commonly used values for the align-items property:
- flex-start — all elements will be positioned at the top of the parent container.
- flex-end — all elements will be positioned at the bottom of the parent container.
- center — the center of all elements will be positioned halfway between the top and bottom of the parent container.
- baseline — the bottom of the content of all items will be aligned with each other.
- stretch — if possible, the items will stretch from top to bottom of the container (this is the default value; 
	    elements with a specified height will not stretch; elements with a minimum height or no height 
            specified will stretch).

FLEX-GROW: If the parent container is larger than necessary then the flex items will not stretch by default. 
The flex-grow property allows us to specify if items should grow to fill a container and also which items should 
grow proportionally more or less than others.

.container {
  display: flex;
}
 
.side {
  width: 100px;
  flex-grow: 1;
}
 
.center {
  width: 100px;
  flex-grow: 2;
}
In the example above, the .container div has a display value of flex, so its three child divs will be positioned 
next to each other. If there is additional space in the .container div (in this case, if it is wider than 300 
pixels), the flex items will grow to fill it. The .center div will stretch twice as much as the .side divs. 
For example, if there were 60 additional pixels of space, the center div would absorb 30 pixels and the side divs 
would absorb 15 pixels each.

If a max-width is set for an element, it will not grow larger than that even if there is more space for it to 
absorb.
Flex items do not grow unless the flex-grow property is declared because the default value of flex-grow is 0.

FLEX-SHRINK: Just as the flex-grow property proportionally stretches flex items, the flex-shrink property can be 
used to specify which elements will shrink and in what proportions.

.container {
  display: flex;
}
 
.side {
  width: 100px;
  flex-shrink: 1;
}
 
.center {
  width: 100px;
  flex-shrink: 2;
}
In the example above, the .center div will shrink twice as much as the .side divs if the .container div is too 
small to fit the elements within it. If the content is 60 pixels too large for the flex container that surrounds 
it, the .center div will shrink by 30 pixels and the outer divs will shrink by 15 pixels each. Margins are 
unaffected by flex-grow and flex-shrink.

Keep in mind, minimum and maximum widths will take precedence over flex-grow and flex-shrink. As with flex-grow, 
flex-shrink will only be employed if the parent container is too small or the browser is adjusted.

FLEX-BASIS: It allows us to specify the width of an item before it stretches or shrinks.

.container {
  display: flex;
}
 
.side {
  flex-grow: 1;
  flex-basis: 100px;
}
 
.center {
  flex-grow: 2;
  flex-basis: 150px;
}
In the example above, the .side divs will be 100 pixels wide and the .center div will be 150 pixels wide if the 
.container div has just the right amount of space (350 pixels, plus a little extra for margins and borders). 
If the .container div is larger, the .center div will absorb twice as much space as the .side divs.


FLEX: The flex property allows you to declare flex-grow, flex-shrink, and flex-basis all in one line.

From:
.big {
  flex-grow: 2;
  flex-shrink: 1;
  flex-basis: 150px;
}
 
.small {
  flex-grow: 1;
  flex-shrink: 2;
  flex-basis: 100px;
}

To:
.big {
  flex: 2 1 150px;
}
 
.small {
  flex: 1 2 100px;
}

Other uses:
.big {
 flex: 2 1;
}
In the example above, we use the flex property to declare flex-grow and flex-shrink, but not flex-basis.

.small {
  flex: 1 20px;
}
In the example above, we use the flex property to declare flex-grow and flex-basis. Note that there is no way to 
set only flex-shrink and flex-basis using 2 values.

FLEX-WRAP: Sometimes, we don’t want our content to shrink to fit its container. Instead, we might want flex items 
to move to the next line when necessary. This can be declared with the flex-wrap property. The flex-wrap property 
can accept three values:
- wrap — child elements of a flex container that don’t fit into a row will move down to the next line
- wrap-reverse — the same functionality as wrap, but the order of rows within a flex container is reversed (for 
example, in a 2-row flexbox, the first row from a wrap container will become the second in wrap-reverse and the 
second row from the wrap container will become the first in wrap-reverse)
- nowrap — prevents items from wrapping; this is the default value and is only necessary to override a wrap value 
set by a different CSS rule.

ALIGN-CONTENT: If a flex container has multiple rows of content, we can use align-content to space the rows from 
top to bottom.

Below are some of the more commonly used align-content values:
- flex-start: all rows of elements will be positioned at the top of the parent container with no extra space between.
- flex-end: all rows of elements will be positioned at the bottom of the parent container with no extra space between.
- center: all rows of elements will be positioned at the center of the parent element with no extra space between.
- space-between: all rows of elements will be spaced evenly from the top to the bottom of the container with no 
 		space above the first or below the last.
- space-around: all rows of elements will be spaced evenly from the top to the bottom of the container with the 
	       same amount of space at the top and bottom and between each element.
- stretch: if a minimum height or no height is specified, the rows of elements will stretch to fill the parent 
	  container from top to bottom (default value).

FLEX-DIRECTION: Up to this point, we’ve only covered flex items that stretch and shrink horizontally and wrap 
vertically. As previously stated, flex containers have two axes: a main axis and a cross axis. By default, the 
main axis is horizontal and the cross axis is vertical.

The main axis is used to position flex items with the following properties:
1. justify-content
2. flex-wrap
3. flex-grow
4. flex-shrink

The cross axis is used to position flex items with the following properties:
1. align-items
2. align-content

The main axis and cross axis are interchangeable. We can switch them using the flex-direction property. If we 
add the flex-direction property and give it a value of column, the flex items will be ordered vertically, 
not horizontally.

The flex-direction property can accept four values:
1. row — elements will be positioned from left to right across the parent element starting from the top left 
	 corner (default).
2. row-reverse — elements will be positioned from right to left across the parent element starting from the top 
	         right corner.
3. column — elements will be positioned from top to bottom of the parent element starting from the top left corner.
4. column-reverse — elements will be positioned from the bottom to the top of the parent element starting from 
		    the bottom left corner.

FLEX-FLOW: The flex-flow property is used to declare both the flex-wrap and flex-direction properties in one line.

.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  flex-direction: column;
}
In the example above, we take two lines to accomplish what can be done with one.

.container {
  display: flex;
  flex-flow: column wrap;
}
All values for flex-direction and flex-wrap are accepted.

NESTED FLEXBOXES: It is also possible to position flex containers inside of one another.

